[[PageOutline]]
[[Center(begin)]]
= '''Hirlam-A System Workshop''' =
[[LastModified]]
[[Center(end)]]
[[Center(begin)]]
== '''Agenda''' ==
[[Center(end)]]

'''23 Oct, 9 - 13:30, with one break at about 10:30'''

  1. Preparation  (2 h) ''(Rapporter: Tomas)''
    * Practical matters on the meeting arrangment (Jose A.), 
    * Discussion about agenda
      * A round-table introduction
      * Purpose, topics, setting of the workshop (Xiaohua)
      * [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Review Review of HIRLAM-A system work, plan] (Xiaohua, 10 min)
      * Roundtable discussion: (all)
        * expectation, proposal on the workshop and its agenda
        * Revision of agenda
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Installation Installation of the reference system] (2 h) ''Presenter and rapporter: Tomas, Lars''
    1. Roundtable review of relevant topics, questions
    1. Presentation
      * What's new in system setup since 6.4.3
      * How to set up local system with various source (demonstration?)
      * Local adaptation
      * Compilation
      * issues of test scripts, simplified scripts
    1. Demonstration of installation on PC platform (Ole Vignes or Kai Sattler?)
    1. System overhaul targets
    1. Problem reporting; discussion 
''' 23 Oct, 15 - 18:30, with one break at around 15:30''' 
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Installation Installation of the reference system] (1h) ''Presenter and rapporter: Tomas, Lars'' (continued)
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/MiniSMS Mini-SMS script](2h): ''Presenter: Ole & Rapporter: Niko''
    1. Roundtable review of relevant topics, questions
    1. Presentation and discussions
      * What's new since 6.4.3
      * data flow; relevant scripts 
      * reference materials
      * How to make local adaptation
      * Questions & discussions
      * Any overhaul issues?
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/LBC Preparation of lateral boundary data] (45 min): ''Presenter: Kalle & Rapporter: Maryanne''
    1. Roundtable discussion about issues and questions on this topic
    1. Whats' relevent code and scripts in the reference system, tunables/namelists
    1. Data flow, common errors
    1. Overhaul issues?
    1. Questions, discussions
'''24 Oct, 9 - 13:30, with one break at about 10:30'''
  1. Review of the Monday sessions, question/discussion on previous topics ''(Rapporter: Tomas)''
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Climate Climate generation] (45 min): ''Presenter: Kai & Rapporter: Eoin''
    1. Roundtable discussion about issues and questions on this topic
    1. Whats' relevent code and scripts in the reference system, tunables
    1. What's new in 7.0 and 7.1
    1. How to do (demonstration)
      * preparation of data
      * launch of climate generation
    1. Examination of climate data
      * tools
      * what to look at
    1. Overhaul issues
    1. Questions and discussions? 
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Forecast Forecast model] (45m): ''Presenter: Jose A. & Rapporter: Jacob''
    1. Roundtable discussion about issues and questions on this topic
    1. Data flow, i/o, namelists
    1. Overhaul issues
    1. Problem reporting; discussion
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/SurfaceAnalysis Surface analysis] (45min): ''Presenter: Xiaohua & Rapporter: Kalle''
    1. Roundtable discussion about issues and questions on this topic
    1. Data flow, i/o, namelists
    1. Overhaul issues
    1. Problem reporting; discussion
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/InitializationAndCoupling Initialization and Coupling] (45min): ''Presenter: Xiaohua & Rapporter: Ole''
    1. Roundtable review of relevant topics, questions
    1. Whats' relevent code and scripts in the reference system
    1. What's new in 7.0 and 7.1 with coupling
    1. Data flow, i/o, namelists, tunables
    1. Relevant monitoring objects
    1. Questions and discussions
  * Briefing of experiences/problems with local HIRLAM installation, 1-15 min each
    * RSHU
    * LHMS
    * met.ie
    * INM
    * DMI
    * FMI
    * met.no
    * SMHI
''' 24 Oct, 15 - 18:30, with one break at around 16:30''' 
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Installation Installation of the reference system] (45 min) ''
    * Further presentation about svn; demonstration about code merge with svn (Tomas)
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Obs3Dvar Observation data preparation] and [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/3D-VAR 3D-VAR ] (1h15min): ''Presenter: Ole & Rapporter: Xiaohua''
    1. Roundtable discussion about issues and questions on this topic
    1. Whats' relevent code and scripts in the reference system
    1. Data flow
    1. Obsproc: i/o; namelists
    1. 3DVAR: i/o, namelists, tunables
    1. Relevant monitoring objects
    1. Overhaul issues
    1. Questions, discussions
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Postpp PostProcessing] (15 min): ''Presenter Xiaohua & Rapporter: Kai & Lars''
    1. Relevent code and scripts in the reference system
    1. Data flow
    1. Namelist, tunables
    1. Problem reporting; discussion 
'''25 Oct, 9 - 13:30, with one break at about 10:30'''
  1. Review of the Tuesday sessions, question/discussion on previous topics (Rapporter: Tomas)
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/4D-VAR 4D-VAR ](1h): ''Presenter: Xiaohua & Rapporter: Ole''
    1. Roundtable discussion about issues and questions on this topic
    1. Whats' relevent code and scripts in the reference system
    1. Data flow, i/o, namelists, tunables
    1. 4D-VAR specific with observation data pre-processing, surface analysis, forecast 
    1. Demonstration of 4D-VAR run and examination of runlogs
    1. Relevant monitoring objects
    1. Overhaul issues
    1. Questions and discussions
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Verification Verification] (45min): ''Presenter: Kalle & Rapporter: Kai''
    1. Roundtable review of relevant topics, questions
    1. Relevent code and scripts in the reference system
    1. Methodology, verification products
    1. Problem reporting; discussion
  1. [wiki:SystemWorkshop2006/Excahnge Sharing of NWP products for forecast, monitoring and verification information] (45min): Presenter & Rapporter: Xiaohua, Tomas
    1. hirlam.org
    1. what, where, how and when
 1. Summary and final discussion (45m): ''Presenter: Xiaohua & Rapporter: Tomas''
   1. Discussion of system plan for 2007.
   1. Opinions about the format and outcome of the workshop
   1. Idea for when/where/what/how on next system whorkshop
   1. Wrap up

== '''Appendix: Purpose of the workshop''' ==
 1. A 'brush-up' for local system managers ---  what's new in 7.0 and 7.1
 1. Discussion on system installation and script of the reference HIRLAM: current situation; experiences; deficiencies; improvement
 1. Review of HIRLAM system modules with emphasis on i/o, data flow, configuration (namelist etc.)
 1. Discuss on operational product display, model intercomparison etc. on hirlam.org
 1. General discussion and planning concerning activities in system area
== '''Appendix: List of the workshop topics''' ==
 1. A general overview and discussion about status and plan for the HIRLAM system
   * New features in 7.0/7.1
   * data flow with re-forecast
   * data flow with 4D-VAR
 1. A demonstration and practice of installation of HIRLAM 7.x on Linux and various other platforms
   * Version control using Subversion
   * Obtaining HIRLAM source code
   * Work with svn sand box; practice of svn command
   * Merging of versions
   * Extracting patches
 1. A review about working with mini-SMS script for job control
   * work with Make for various platforms, under mini-SMS or directly within sandbox etc.
   * work with single platform
   * construction of tdf's for small tasks
 1. A review about various sub-scripts/namelists, i/o for each HIRLAM modules
   * climate generation
   * boundary data interpolation
   * observation data pre-processing
   * surface and upper air data assimilation
   * analysis monitoring
   * forecast
   * post-processing
   * verification
 1. A discussion about practical steps for operational data exchange and other cooperation
   * collection of data for mast profile comparison
   * collection of verification scores
   * collection of operational system monitoring information and graphic products
 1. A preview and discussion about system overhauls
   * source code overhaul
   * script overhaul
 1. Other general discussion about system and operational matters

== '''Appendix: Proposed preparation works''' ==

We encourage all participants to select some of the exercise items below and spend some time to go though the work. Write down your experiences and report problems/exchange ideas during the workshop!

 * Test installation of 7.1alpha1
   * on home platform 
   * on PC-laptop 
 * Practice use of Subversion
   1. setting-up a svn sandbox for earlier HIRLAM versions such as HIRLAM-7.0
   1. modify some of the subroutines/scripts
   1. update the version to the latest version, say hirlam-7.1alpha1, and resolve conflict
 * Practice on HIRLAM script system
   1. write a tdf file for post-processing only job
   1. modify the MARS data extraction script to obtain lateral boundary data every 6 h instead of 12 h
   1. modify post-processing output stream in the forecast to get model output for selected domain and selected fields.
   1. perform code reproducibility test to check forecast and data assimilation modules
     * on different platforms
     * with different optimization level
     * with different domain decomposition, number of PEs


== '''Appendix: Participant lists''' ==
 * DMI: Jacob, Kai, Maryanne, Xiaohua
 * FMI: Kalle, Niko
 * INM: Estrella, Jose A., Sergio, (partial participants: Jana, Maria, Alberto, Carlos Geijo, Carlos Santos)
 * met.ie: Eoin
 * met.no: Ole
 * SMHI: Lars, Tomas
 * LHMS: Paulius
 * RSHU: Evgeny



