[[PageOutline]]
[[Center(begin)]]
= '''Video Meetings on Radar data processing''' =

Last modified [[LastModified]]
[[Center(end)]]

== 5th meeting: 26 March 2018, 14:00 CET ==

== Participants ==
- Jana Sanchez
- Eoin Whelan
- Wim Verkleij (couldn't make it due to connection problem)
- Martin Ridal
- G端nther Haase
- Maria Monteiro
- Mats Dahlbom
- Alena Trojakova
- Roohollah Azad
- Claude Fischer
- Roger Randriamampianina

**Review of Actions from the 2nd/3rd meeting:**[[BR]]
**Action-1:** **Eoin** provided documents on the changes corresponding to CY43 in the Annex of the previous meeting's minutes.Among others, new HDF5 data reader is implemented. For the Harmonie system, Martin successfully activated the Hirlam HDF5 reader in the 43h2_t2 system. **Roger** thinks that there is a need of a good inventory of the implementation of the two HDF5 readers. This topic will be also discussed during the side meeting in Toulouse about Bator.[[BR]]

**Action 2** on **Wim and Jana** to implement and test the use of spectral Q in 3DVar scheme. **Wim** couldn't join and **Jana** couldn't start to work with with this issue.[[BR]]
   ===> **Kept**[[BR]]

**Action 3**[[BR]]
   ===> **done**[[BR]]

**Action 4** and **Action 5** on Roger (see below)[[BR]]
   ===> **done** unless one needs more information.[[BR]]

**Action 6** [[BR]]
   ===> **Kept**. Roger will proceed ASAP, probably with more information.[[BR]]



**Radar related meetings:** [[BR]]
 -- **OPERA meeting**: G端nther reported that there was presentation mentioning the effort done in LACE, Meteo France and Hirlam about the use of OPERA radar data. There is a plan in the next phase of OPERA to make the data more usable for data assimilation and NWP purposes. This new phase plan needs to be decided soon by the EUMETNET council.

**European radar network:**[[BR]]
**Reflectivity:**[[BR]]
 -- **Alena**, on behalf of LACE, mentioned that they provided the metadata to OPERA. In LACE development work, the !PrepOpera is used, while further analysis of the metadata is underway to guarantee that all needed data are in place with the radar network for data assimilation.[[BR]]
 -- **Jana** mentioned that she has memory problem issue when assimilating reflectivity data. Increasing the processors and reducing the number of observations help. She is working with the IT expert to find good solution.[[BR]]
 -- **Claude** mentioned that Meteo France has an open issue on adding or not OPERA data from some sites in their next parallel suite. They are able to monitor data from about 50 radars from their neighbouring countries. In their OPERA data implementation, "Odyssey tool" is used to treat the HDF5 data. [[BR]]

**Radar radial winds:**[[BR]]

 --**Roger** mentioned that at MET Norway someone is starting to work with radial wind assimilation.[[BR]]
 --**Mats** mentioned that he helped **Wim** to produce a single radial wind in HDF5 for assimilation study.[[BR]]

**Radar quality control:**[[BR]]
 **Action:1** on Roger to ask Eric Wattrelot about the "tools" he is using from the Odyssey software to treat the OPERA data.[[BR]]

**Radar data & COPE:**[[BR]]
 -- The development work will follow. !PreOpera is good tool to be taken into consideration for the new radar filter...


**Annex:** (None)

==============================================================================

== 4th meeting: 10 January 2018, 10:00 CET ==

== Participants ==
- Jana Sanchez
- Eoin Whelan
- Jan Barkmeijer 
- Wim Verkleij
- Martin Ridal
- G端nther Haase
- Maria Monteiro
- Mats Dahlbom
- Alena Trojakova
- Michal Nestiak
- Claude Fischer
- Roger Randriamampianina

**Review of Actions from the previous meeting:**[[BR]]
**Action-1:** Video meeting on !PrepOpera and Bator: After short discussion on the processing of radar data from OPERA, we found that it's important to involve all developers from Aladin, LACE, Meteo France and Hirlam. **Roger** will propose dates for this meeting. The following colleagues are highly encouraged to join this meeting: **Mats, Martin, Frank G., Eric W, Eoin for COPE**. [[BR]]
 ===> This action was defined as done, but we think we should keep it open, since no concrete decision was taken until now regarding the common radar pre- and processing. If I understood well what **Claude** said during this meeting, then Meteo France is now investigating the necessary updates to the current Bator to read all accessible OPERA radar data. They would like to have as many observations as possible. They have been working with Dutch and Belgian radar data last year. **Roger** decided to have the next series of video meeting before the All Staff Meeting, so we should have update in relatively short time. [[BR]]

**Action-2:** Participation to radar meeting at EWGLAM: **Martin and Roohollah** were kindly asked to raise the question on processing of OPERA data at EWGLAM meeting and report to the group about the experience of the other consortia. [[BR]]
 ===> ** done **[[BR]]

**Action-3:** **Jean-Francois** will report about the source of differences in their radial wind data from OPERA and the locally in use. **Martin** can also contact his radar colleagues at SMHI. [[BR]]
 ===>**Done** [[BR]]

**Data pre-processing:** [[BR]]
 When discussing the **Action 1** above, **Eoin** said that Meteo France is writing new reader for HF5 data next to what Martin have written in Bator. Below **Eoin** provide more about this change:[[BR]]
BATOR CY43 documents:[[BR]]
 * [http://www.umr-cnrm.fr/gmapdoc/spip.php?article229 http://www.umr-cnrm.fr/gmapdoc/spip.php?article229] -- general information
 * [http://www.umr-cnrm.fr/gmapdoc/IMG/pdf/namel_bator_cy43.pdf http://www.umr-cnrm.fr/gmapdoc/IMG/pdf/namel_bator_cy43.pdf] -- namelist

As mentioned above, it's important to have a common decision on pre- and processing of OPERA radar data. !PrepOpera was promoted by Hirlam to pre-process the radar data in HDF5. It was tested in Slovenia and Austria. [[BR]]
 **Roger** asked about the strategy on radar processing in COPE project. **Eoin** said that it's up to us (LAM users) how we would like to do it. It was decided, in connection to the **Action 1** above, to evaluate the two approaches (Martin's and the newly written Meteo France routines) and extend it to COPE for further use in data assimilation.[[BR]]

**Radar related meetings:** [[BR]]
 -- **OPERA meeting** will be in March and G端nther is happy to represent us.[[BR]]
 -- **ERAD meeting** will be in the beginning of July. **Martin** mentioned that earlier a NWP oriented session was organised during the ERAD meeting. It's probable that this year we will have similar session. We will meet before the ERAD meeting, so we will learn more about it next time and probably discuss our (NWP) contribution.[[BR]]

**Use of European radar network:** [[BR]]
** Reflectivity:**[[BR]]
 - Nobody could start seriously working with the OIFS data, but **Mats** said that they seem to be fine and he found, when checking the data, a lot of data. Sometime even more frequent than every 15 minutes.[[BR]]

**Jan** reported that the use of reflectivity data in 4DVar is showing unsatisfactory adjoint test. This problem is not seen when using the specific humidity in spectral space during minimisation. Note, this issue is also reported in the minutes from the [https://hirlam.org/trac/wiki/HarmonieWorkingWeek/ALGO201711 last working week on DA algorithm ] in Lanzarote. **Wim** mentioned that he is checking the performance of the 3DVar now and probably the assimilation of radial wind is not causing this problem. **Jana** reported that she has problem with assimilation of reflectivity in 3DVar. She is interested in the use of Q in spectral space in minimisation. [[BR]]

**Action 2** on **Wim and Jana** to implement and test the use of spectral Q in 3DVar scheme.

**Action 3** on **Claude** to provide the use Meteo France of specific humidity in 3DVar. He confirmed with Pierre that the Arome-France 3D-VAR minimization is run with **LGPQ=.T. and LSPQ=.F. **, which means that the specific humidity is use in gridpoint space during the minimisation.
  ===> **Done** 

**Radial wind:**
 **Roger** informed the participants about the fact that at MET they use such scanning strategy that the de-aliasing is not needed to properly use the radial wind detection.

**Action 4** on Roger to ask his colleague about the description of the radial wind measurement and make it available to the participants.
  * **Christoffer Elo** prepared a short description of [https://hirlam.org/trac/attachment/wiki/Meetings/Data_assimilation/Video_Meetings/2018/Meeting_on_radar_data_processing/radar-processing-2018.pdf the scanning strategy and volume data processing] at MET Norway.[[BR]]
  ===> **Done**

**Radar data in 4D-VAR:**[[BR]]

(discussed see above on reflectivity assimilation)


**Radar quality control:**[[BR]]

 - **Wim** asked about the efficiency of clutter detection. [[BR]]

**Action 5** on **Roger** to provide details about the method implemented in PRORAD at MET.[[BR]]
  ===> **Done** (see above)

**Action 6:** Ask Meteo France on the procedure they are using for sea clutter detection. It was suggested to provide the above document with the request to Meteo France.[[BR]]

**Radar data & COPE:**[[BR]]

(discussed see above)

**Annex:** (None)


==========================================================================


== 3rd meeting: 14 March 2017, 10:00 CET ==

== Participants ==
- Jana Sanchez
- Zahra Sahlaoui
- Eoin Whelan
- Jan Barkmeijer 
- Wim Verkleij
- Martin Ridal
- Roohollah Azad
- Maria Monteiro
- Jeanette Onvlee
- Roger Randriamampianina

**Review of Actions from the 2nd meeting:**[[BR]]
**Action-1:** Video meeting on !PrepOpera and Bator: After short discussion on the processing of radar data from OPERA, we found that it's important to involve all developers from Aladin, LACE, Meteo France and Hirlam. **Roger** will propose dates for this meeting. The following colleagues are highly encouraged to join this meeting: **Mats, Martin, Frank G., Eric W, Eoin for COPE**. [[BR]]
 ===>**Done, see below for the minutes**[[BR]]

**Action-2:** Participation to radar meeting at EWGLAM: **Martin and Roohollah** were kindly asked to raise the question on processing of OPERA data at EWGLAM meeting and report to the group about the experience of the other consortia. [[BR]]
 ===>**Done, more colleagues attended the meeting**[[BR]]

**Action-3:** **Jean-Francois** will report about the source of differences in their radial wind data from OPERA and the locally in use. **Martin** can also contact his radar colleagues at SMHI. [[BR]]
 ===>**Done** [[BR]]

**Roger** Informed the participants about the meeting on !PrepOpera and Bator (see below).[[BR]]

**Data pre-processing:** [[BR]]
**Action 1:** Roger report about how to get the OIFS account from the mail sent by Elena.[[BR]]
 - **Elena Saltikoff** informed the group through Roger and Mats with the following information: "To get a OIFS account: Email to cmr_odc at meteo.fr. Anyone from EUMETNET member institutes gets this with no further application process."[[BR]]
 - **Jan** asked the frequency of the new OPERA data. **Elena** informed that OPERA delivers data every 15 minute. **Maud Martet** confirmed this information with the following additional information: "More precisely, we are producing one file per radar every 15 minutes where we gather all the PPIs available between H-10minutes and H+5 minutes. For instance, the file _PAZZ84_C_EUOC_20170320124500_demem.h5 will contain all the PPIs for the radar of Memmingen observed between 12h35 and 12h50."  [[BR]]


**Use of European radar network:** [[BR]]
** Reflectivity:**
 - **Wim** continues working on the radar data from their neighbouring countries.[[BR]]
 - **Martin** reported that Danish and Finnish data are now tested in !MetCoOp preop system. The impact is so far neutral, although the reflectivity data are well used.[[BR]]

**Radial wind:**
 - **Wim** reported that they found positive impact mainly on surface parameters. Other skill scores did not show differences. He also have an other experiment, but did not have time to look at the results yet.[[BR]]
 - **Florian** reported that they use the same processing scheme reported during 2nd video meeting (see minutes). They see positive impact in case studies.[[BR]]

**Radar data in 4D-VAR:**[[BR]]
 - Mainly the work with 4D-Var is blocked due to technical problem.
 - **Jan** reported that with LAROME=.F., every thing in spectral, the adjoint test shows satisfactory results. The work with 4D-Var debugging with be continued in Iceland during the working week.[[BR]]

**Radar quality control:**[[BR]]
 - **Roger** informed the group that at MET Norway, they are planning to check the performance of Baltrad vs Prorad through impact studies in !MetCoOp model. They were asked to check both reflectivity and wind data.[[BR]]
 - **Jeanette** would like to see this study extended to other countries in Europe. [[BR]]
 - **Jan** asked about progress in identification of sea clutter, because they observed some false precipitation over sea. **Roger** said that one of the latest development at MET Norway is the improvement of detection and flagging of sea clutter (to be confirmed with his colleague).[[BR]]

**Action 2:** Ask Meteo France on the procedure they are using for sea clutter detection.[[BR]]

**Radar data & COPE:**[[BR]]
 - **Mats and Eoin** will work on reading the HDF5 volume data through COPE. Eoin informed the group that ECMWF consider that all observation are handled through BUFR format.[[BR]]

**Annex:** (Need to ask Mats about additional inputs)


