[[PageOutline]]

[[Center(begin)]]
== '''Harmonie System Documentation''' ==
= ''' Single observation impact experiment ''' =
[[Center(end)]]

== '''General''' ==
The results of single observation impact experiment provide useful information of the observation operator and error statistics. Among others, it is a useful tool for diagnosing background error statistics. The procedure described below is the recommended one and it has been tested on HARMONIE harmonie-43h21, [https://hirlam.org/trac/changeset/542101616bf4932f65ff93d0e8567e0d7b3c0f6f/Harmonie with some modifications]. For old instructions please visit the [wiki:HarmonieSystemDocumentation/43h2.1/SingleObs_ensys 43h2.1] documentation. The example below with the new system is for a AROME domain covering Denmark (DOMAIN=DKCOEXP). Three TEMP observation types have been implemented in scr/Create_singe_obs as deviations to the background:

 * A temperature increase of 1K
 * A wind speed increase of 1 m/s
 * A specific humidity reduction to 90% of the background.

== '''Illustrative example of single observation impact experiment on ecgb/cca''' ==
      1. create hm_home/sinob directory. Then cd hm_home/sinob.
      1. create experiment by typing '~hlam/Harmonie setup -r ~hlam/harmonie_release/tags/harmonie-43h2.1'.
      1. Edit ecf/config_exp.h  as follows:
        * set ANASURF=none,
        * set SINGLEOBS=yes,
        * set LSMIXBC=no,
      1. Edit scr/include.ass  as follows:
        * set USEOBSOUL=1,
      1. Copy a correction of the file Create_single_obs by typing 'cp ~hlam/harmone_release/git/develop/scr/Create_single_obs scr/Create_single_obs'. 
      1. Copy a correction for gl , 'mkdir -p util/gl/mod/ ; cp ~hlam/harmone_release/git/develop/util/gl/mod/module_rotations.f90 util/gl/mod'.
      1. Launch the single observation impact experiment by standing in hm_home/sinob typing:
{{{
   ~hlam/Harmonie start DTG=2012061003 DTGEND=2012061006
}}}
      1. The resulting analysis file be found as cca:$SCRATCH/hm_home/sinob/archive/2012/06/10/06/MXMIN1999+0000. You can now diagnose the 3D-VAR analysis increments of the sinob-experiment taking the difference between the analysis  MXMIN1999+0000 (analysis) and the first guess, cca:$SCRATCH/hm_home/sinob/archive/2012/06/10/03/ICMSHHARM+0003. Plot horizontal and vertical cross-sections of temperature and other variables using your favorite software (EpyGram for example). 

Note that you can change position of observation, observation error, variable to be observed etc. Investigate these options by taking a closer look at the script Create_single_obs.

Read more about radiance single observation experiments [http://cimss.ssec.wisc.edu/itwg/itsc/itsc17/posters/7.22_randriamampianina.pdf here].
In ec:/smx/sinob_wiki_ml you will also find OBSOUL_amsua7, a file for generating a satellati radiance amsu a channel 7 single observation impact experiment.

[[Center(begin)]]
[wiki:HarmonieSystemDocumentation Back to the main page of the HARMONIE System Documentation]
[[Center(end)]]
----

[[Center(begin)]]
[[Disclaimer]]

[[Color(red, Last modified on)]] [[LastModified]]
[[Center(end)]]
 
